# A4: Final Project Proposal
- **DATA512 University of Washington**
- **Joel Stremmel**
- **11-5-19**

### Motivation and Problem Statement: 
I plan to analyze food inspection data from restaurants and other food establishments in Chicago from 2010 to the present.  As a Seattle resident, I am always intrigued by the signs outside of restaurants that indicate a restaurant's health safety rating.  Not all cities have this, but certainly it is important information for consumers.  It can also have a big impact on business owners, particularly if they fail a food inspection.  The city of Chicago has a large dataset of food inspections on HealthData.gov that will provide the opportunity to understand the rates at which food establishments of various types pass or fail food inspections, and what other attributes of these establishments are associated with passing or failing.  I intend to do this research in a reproducible fashion, such that these same methods could be applied to analyze food inspections in other cities.  

### Scientific and Human-Centered Considerations: 
Understanding attributes associated with passing or failing food inspections could help uncover what types of establishments in which locations are at greater risk of failing these inspections and why.  While I will build a classifier to predict types of establishments likely to fail food inspections, the purpose of this analysis is to understand both the trends in the data collected about food inspections in Chicago as well as possible confounding factors and potential sources of bias.  To do this I will analyze whether or not establishments in poor neighborhoods are more likely to fail food inspections, and controlling for this, attempt to uncover what other factors drive food inspection results.  I will also provide a descriptive analysis of whether or not certain types of inspections (i.e. Canvass or License) for certain types of food establishments (i.e. School or Restaurant) are more likely to result in passing or failing inspections.  These results will inform food inspectors, business owners, and consumers, providing tools to summarize and draw insights from this growing data asset.  

### Data Used:
For this analysis, I plan to use the Chicago Food Inspections data from HealthData.gov: https://healthdata.gov/dataset/food-inspections.  At the time of writing, it has 194,684 records of food inspections, and represents food inspections in the city of Chicago going back to 2010 as individual records.  Each record contains a facility type, name, address, date, zip code, longitude, latitude, risk status of the business, and inspection result, in addition to specific violations.  The dataset is licensed under the ODbL (Open Database License): http://opendefinition.org/licenses/odc-odbl/.  Of particular note, the dataset provides detailed location information that will allow me to identify geographic patterns associated with passing or failing food inspections in the city of Chicago, and link to additional information about city neighborhoods to assess correlations with economic status.  While this dataset has been made freely available by the city of Chicago, one ethical consideration is that the names of restaurants are made public in this dataset.  That said, it is precisely for public health reasons that this information is made public, so I will not remove these identifiers from my analysis.  That said, I will be courteous by not calling attention to or disparaging specific establishments over others, instead focusing on group trends and considering assumptions and possible confounding effects when summarizing my findings.

### Unknowns and Dependencies: 
I expect to be able to complete this project in the allotted time.  To analyze my selected data for economic bias, I will need access to economic indicators by geography.  The www.census.gov website has the data I will need; however, I may not have access to data that corresponds precisely to the years of food inspections I am analyzing.  Therefore, I will need to carefully document these assumptions.

